docs(guides): Adds scaffolding (#2860)
webpack/webpack.js.org: src/content/contribute/writing-a-scaffold.md

---
title: Writing a Scaffold
sort: 3
contributors:

>   - evenstensberg

Reviewer: You can discard me from the list, I've not written this page at docs page :)

Before writing a `webpack-cli` scaffold, think about what you're trying to achieve. Do you want a "general" scaffold that could be used by any project or type of app? Do you want something focused, like a scaffold that writes both your `webpack.config.js` and your framework code? It's also useful to think about the user experience for your scaffold.

`webpack-cli` offers interactive experience to customize the output accordingly. For example asking questions like: "What is your entry point?".

Let's create our skeleton. In order for the webpack CLI to detect our options, we have to define some properties in the constructor.

__generator.js__

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {}
    };
  }
};
```

`configuration` object has to have one property you name (we named it `dev` in the snippet above). A good practice is to name the underlying property with the name you want to give to your `webpack.config.js` file for a better indication of what configuration each file has.

## Make it interactive

> In order for us to interact with the users, we make use of the [`prompting`](http://yeoman.io/authoring/user-interactions.html) method yeoman has. In this method, we can get various answers from the user, like asking for entry points or plugins. You can either manually create each object representing a question or you can make good use of our utilities from [`webpack-scaffold`](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack-scaffold). We are in a good mood today, so let's build a configuration only if the user chooses `Pengwings`.

Reviewer: FYI there's a joke behind naming this pengwings: 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GHPNKUMf70

Reviewer 2: Yeah i know that one :D

Author: :rofl:

T> Define the `webpackOptions` property in the constructor to keep your scaffold as clean as possible!

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings'])
    ]).then(answer => {
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        // build the configuration
      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Dev Configurations

Congratulations! You've now created the base of a `webpack-scaffold`! Let's now add some more stuff to our future configuration file!

> We are going to follow good convention, and extract our configuration into another file, named `dev-config.js`. As this is just regular JavaScript, we can make the module a function, and supply our `entry` as a parameter for us to build up a configuration file from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are going to follow good convention, and extract our configuration into another file, named `dev-config.js`. As this is just regular JavaScript, we can make the module a function and supply our `entry` as a parameter for us to build up a configuration file from.
```

---
title: Writing a Scaffold
sort: 3
contributors:
  - evenstensberg
  - pranshuchittora

>   - EugeneHlushko

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - EugeneHlushko
  - misterdev
  - rishabh3112
```

---

Welcome to the demonstration of the new `webpack init` command! To view what we are building today, run `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`. This demo will show you how to build your own webpack scaffold. Let's start by creating a file named `generator.js`.

## Create a basic structure

Let's create our skeleton. In order for the webpack CLI to detect our options, we have to define some properties in the constructor.

__generator.js__

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {}
    };
  }
};
```

> `configuration` object has to have one property you name (we named it `dev` in the snippet above). A good practise is to name the underlying property with the name you want to give to your `webpack.config.js` file for better indication of what configuration each file has.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`configuration` object has to have one property you name (we named it `dev` in the snippet above). A good practice is to name the underlying property with the name you want to give to your `webpack.config.js` file for a better indication of what configuration each file has.
```

## Make it interactive

> In order for us to interact with the users, we make use of the [`prompting`](http://yeoman.io/authoring/user-interactions.html) method yeoman has. In this method we can get various answers from the user, like asking for entry points or plugins. You can either manually create each object representing a question or you can make good use of our utilities from [`webpack-scaffold`](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack-scaffold). We are in a good mood today, so let's build a configuration only if the user chooses `Pengwings`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order for us to interact with the users, we make use of the [`prompting`](http://yeoman.io/authoring/user-interactions.html) method yeoman has. In this method, we can get various answers from the user, like asking for entry points or plugins. You can either manually create each object representing a question or you can make good use of our utilities from [`webpack-scaffold`](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack-scaffold). We are in a good mood today, so let's build a configuration only if the user chooses `Pengwings`.
```

T> Define the `webpackOptions` property in the constructor to keep your scaffold as clean as possible!

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings'])
    ]).then(answer => {
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        // build the configuration
      }
    });
  }
};
```

> ## Dev Configs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Dev Configurations
```

> Congratulations! You've now created the base of an `webpack-scaffold`! Let's now add some more stuff to our future configuration file!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've now created the base of a `webpack-scaffold`! Let's now add some more stuff to our future configuration file!
```

      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?')
    ]).then(answer => {
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Some more configs

Let's look at `dev-config.js`. We have access to user's answers, use them to assign values to desired config properties, in this case - `entry`. We've also added an output property that has a `filename`.

T> String values must be quoted twice. This is to preserve our ability to add other functionality, using only " ", while " 'Mystring' " resolves to a string.

__dev-config.js__

```js
module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let entryProp = answer.entry ? ( '\'' + answer.entry + '\'') : '\'index.js\'';
  let devConfig = {
    entry: entryProp,
    output: {
      filename: '\'[name].js\''
    }
  };
  return devConfig;
};

```

Run `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`, and you should see scaffold working.

## Basic Scaffold

> Now that we've got our initial scaffold. Let's add the rest of our options! For the `context`, let's say we need to use `path`'s `join` function. For this, we use a single quote string. By default the current directory is used, but it's recommended to pass a value in your configuration (context). This makes your configuration independent from CWD (current working directory).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now that we've got our initial scaffold. Let's add the rest of our options! For the `context`, let's say we need to use `path`'s `join` function. For this, we use a single quote string. By default, the current directory is used, but it's recommended to pass a value in your configuration (context). This makes your configuration independent from CWD (current working directory).
```

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),
      Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your html file?')
    ]).then (answer => {
      if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.topScope = [
          'const path = require("path")',
          'const webpack = require("webpack")'
        ];
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.configName = 'pengwings';
      }
    });
  }
  writing() {
    this.config.set('configuration', this.options.env.configuration);
  }
};
```

> Congratulations 🎉 on completing your first scaffold! If you need help, submit an [issue](https://github.com/ev1stensberg/webpack-scaffold-demo/issues), or reach out on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/evenstensberg)!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Congratulations 🎉 on completing your first scaffold! If you need help, submit an [issue](https://github.com/evenstensberg/webpack-scaffold-demo/issues), or reach out on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/evenstensberg)!
```
I would also suggest to add link to `webpack-cli` for filing issue.

---
title: Writing a Scaffold
sort: 3
contributors:

>   - pranshuchittora

Reviewer 5: I think that would be nice to also give credits to the people who previously worked on those files by adding them to the contributors in the heading. For example, I would add Even here that wrote the original tutorial :)

Author: @misterdev  :+1:

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),
      Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your commonsChunk?')
    ]).then(answer => {
      if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.topScope = [
          'const path = require("path")',
          'const webpack = require("webpack")'
        ];
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.configName = 'pengwings';
      }
    });
  }
};
```

> ## Introducing .yo-rc.json

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## About .yo-rc.json
```

    ]).then(answer => {
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

We've now abstracted that part of the code that's probably going to be really big. Let's go ahead and add another question, like asking for an entry point.

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?')
    ]).then(answer => {
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Let's go ahead and create our config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Some more configs

> Let's start by looking at `dev-config.js`. We have some answers, now we want to use them to build up a config. We will start with mounting our values on the variables we've declared, with some properties we want to build up. We also want to use the answers for the `entry` property. We've also added an output property that has a `filename`.

Reviewer 2: I've been reading this a few times so far, it still feels wrong. Maybe lets go with:
```suggestion
Let's look at `dev-config.js`. We have access to user's answers, use them to assign values to desired config properties, in this case - `entry`. We've also added an output property that has a `filename`.
```

T> String values must be quoted twice. This is to preserve our ability to add other functionality, using only " ", while " 'Mystring' " resolves to a string.

__dev-config.js__

```js
module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let entryProp = answer.entry ? ( '\'' + answer.entry + '\'') : '\'index.js\'';
  let devConfig = {
    entry: entryProp,
    output: {
      filename: '\'[name].js\''
    }
  };
  return devConfig;
};

```

Run `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`, and you should see scaffold working.

## Basic Scaffold

> Now that we've got our initial scaffold. Let's add the rest of our options! For the `context`, let's say we've got a `path.join` we want to make use of. For this, we use a single quote string. By default the current directory is used, but it's recommended to pass a value in your configuration (context). This makes your configuration independent from CWD (current working directory).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we've got our initial scaffold. Let's add the rest of our options! For the `context`, let's say we need to use `path`'s `join` function. For this, we use a single quote string. By default the current directory is used, but it's recommended to pass a value in your configuration (context). This makes your configuration independent from CWD (current working directory).
```

```js
module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let entryProp = answer.entry ? ( '\'' + answer.entry + '\'') : '\'index.js\'';
  let devConfig = {
    entry: entryProp,
    output: {
      filename: '\'[name].js\''
    },
    context: 'path.join(__dirname, "src")'
  };
  return devConfig;
};
```

## Add more functionality

Now we are ready to add a plugin. For this, let's create an utility for [`SplitChunksPlugin`](/plugins/split-chunks-plugin/) based on the input from the user. Start by adding another question to our prompt.

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),

>       Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your splitChunks?')

Reviewer 2: Maybe pick some other plugin that is easier to use as an example? splitting your code can be done by using optimization.splitChunks now without specifically providing a plugin to the config.

Author: Sounds great, will replace the splitChunks with html-webpack-plugin

    ]).then(answer => {
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Create string with chunks

Now, we've got to create a string with our chunk. This is how it looks.

```js
module.exports = function createSplitChunksPlugin(chunk) {
  return (

>     'new webpack.optimization.splitChunks.name:' + '\'' + chunk + '\'' +

Reviewer 2: this is not right

Reviewer 2: Maybe use another plugin for this example? html or other that is simple

---
title: Writing a Scaffold
sort: 3
contributors:
  - pranshuchittora
---

> Welcome to an demonstration of the new `webpack init` feature! To view what we are building today, simply do `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`. This demo will show you how to build your own webpack scaffold. Let's start by creating a file named `generator.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Welcome to the demonstration of the new `webpack init` command! To view what we are building today, run `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`. This demo will show you how to build your own webpack scaffold. Let's start by creating a file named `generator.js`.
```

Reviewer 2: Do not use words like "easily" "simply"...

> Welcome to an demonstration of the new `webpack init` feature! To view what we are building today, simply do `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`. This demo is to show you how to build your own webpack scaffold. Let's start by creating an file named `generator.js`.

Reviewer 5: 1. "This demo is to show you", may be better "This demo will show you" ?
2. "an file named" -> "a file named"

> 

Reviewer 2: remove extra line breaks, keep it two before a new header `##`

## Create a basic structure

> First, we have to define our skeleton. In order for the CLI to find our options, we've got to define some properties in the constructor first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create our skeleton. In order for the webpack CLI to detect our options, we have to define some properties in the constructor.
```

__generator.js__

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {}
    };
  }
};
```

> As you can see, the `configuration` object has to have one property you name, it can be anything. A good practise is to name the underlying property with the name you want to give your `webpack.config.js` file, to better indicate what values each file has.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`configuration` object has to have one property you name (we named it `dev` in the snippet above). A good practise is to name the underlying property with the name you want to give to your `webpack.config.js` file for better indication of what configuration each file has.
```

## Make it interactive

> In order for us to interact with the users, we make good use of the [`prompting`](http://yeoman.io/authoring/user-interactions.html) method yeoman has. In this method we can get various of answers from the user, like asking for entry points or plugins. You can either manually create each object representing a question, or you can make good use of our utilities from [`webpack-scaffold`](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack-scaffold). I'm in a good mood today, so I'm going to build a configuration if the user chooses `Pengwings`.

Reviewer 5: 1. "We can get various answers" (remove "of")
2. I'm going to build a configuration **only** if the user chooses `Pengwings`

> In order for us to interact with the users, we make good use of the [`prompting`](http://yeoman.io/authoring/user-interactions.html) method yeoman has. In this method we can get various answers from the user, like asking for entry points or plugins. You can either manually create each object representing a question, or you can make good use of our utilities from [`webpack-scaffold`](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack-scaffold). I'm in a good mood today, so I'm going to build a configuration only if the user chooses `Pengwings`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for us to interact with the users, we make use of the [`prompting`](http://yeoman.io/authoring/user-interactions.html) method yeoman has. In this method we can get various answers from the user, like asking for entry points or plugins. You can either manually create each object representing a question or you can make good use of our utilities from [`webpack-scaffold`](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli/tree/master/packages/webpack-scaffold). We are in a good mood today, so let's build a configuration only if the user chooses `Pengwings`.
```

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {}
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings'])

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

>       if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
```

>         //

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // build the configuration
```

      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Configuring Webpack

> So far, we've made an interaction with the user. If you were coding along, great! So how do we proceed from here? Let's try to build a simple webpack config that has an entry point, an output, and a context property. For this, we need to create a `webpackOptions` property on our `dev` object. This is where `entry`, `output` and `context` is gonna be hooked up, later resulting in a `webpack.config.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, we've made an interaction with the user. If you were coding along, great! So how do we proceed from here? Let's try to build a simple webpack configuration that has an [entry point](/configuration/entry-context/#entry), an [output](/concepts/#output), and a [context property](/configuration/entry-context/#context). For this, we need to create a `webpackOptions` property on our `dev` object. This is where `entry`, `output` and `context` is gonna be hooked up, later resulting in a `webpack.config.js`.
```

T> Define the `webpackOptions` property in the constructor to make your scaffold as most clean as possible!

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {

>         webpackOptions: {}

Reviewer 2: will you provide the example of what they have to write here for `entry`, `output` and `context`? to nicely follow the guide...

      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings'])

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

>       if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
```

>         //

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // build the configuration
```

      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Dev Configs

> Congrats, you've now created the base of an `webpack-scaffold`! Let's add some stuff to our future configuration file!

Reviewer 2: Congratulations!
```suggestion
Congratulations! You've now created the base of an `webpack-scaffold`! Let's now add some more stuff to our future configuration file!
```

> I'm going to follow good convention, and extract my config into another file, named `dev-config.js`. As this is just regular JavaScript, we can make the module a function, and supply our entry as a parameter for us to build up a configuration file from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are going to follow good convention, and extract our configuration into another file, named `dev-config.js`. As this is just regular JavaScript, we can make the module a function, and supply our `entry` as a parameter for us to build up a configuration file from.
```

__dev-config.js__

```js
module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let devConfig = {};
};
```

__generator.js__

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {

>         webpackOptions: {}

Reviewer 2: will you provide the example of what they have to write here for entry, output and context? to nicely follow the guide...

      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings'])

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

>       if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
```

        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

> Sweet! We've now abstracted some part of the code that's probably gonna be really big. We can almost call ourselves engineers now! Let's go ahead and add another question, like asking for an entry point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've now abstracted some part of the code that's probably going to be really big. Let's go ahead and add another question, like asking for an entry point.
```

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?')

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

>       if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
```

        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

> These answers aren't well known on their own for us, so let's go ahead and create our config.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean here?

Reviewer 2: Specifically at `aren't well known for us.`

## Some more configs

> Let's start by looking at `dev-config.js`. We have some answers, now we want to use them to build up a config. How do we do that? Evidently, we should mount our values on the variable we've declared, with some properties we want to build up. We also want to use the answers for the entry prop. I've also taken the liberty to add an output property that has a `filename`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's start by looking at `dev-config.js`. We have some answers, now we want to use them to build up a config. We will start with mounting our values on the variables we've declared, with some properties we want to build up. We also want to use the answers for the `entry` property. We've also added an output property that has a `filename`.
```

> Let's start by looking at `dev-config.js`. We have some answers, now we want to use them to build up an config. How do we do that? Evidently, we should mount our values on the variable we've declared, with some properties we want to build up. We also want to use the answers for the entry prop. I've also taken the liberty to add an output property that has a `filename`.

Reviewer 5: build up an config -> build up a config

> T> With string values, you need to wrap your strings once again. This is because we can declare some other functionality, using only " ", while " 'Mystring' " resolves to a string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
T> String values must be quoted twice. This is to preserve our ability to add other functionality, using only " ", while " 'Mystring' " resolves to a string.
```

__dev-config.js__

```js
module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let entryProp = answer.entry ? ( '\'' + answer.entry + '\'') : '\'index.js\'';
  let devConfig = {
    entry: entryProp,
    output: {
      filename: '\'[name].js\''
    }
  };
  return devConfig;
};

```

> Try running `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`, and now you're seeing your first scaffold!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run `webpack init webpack-scaffold-demo`, and you should see scaffold working.
```

Reviewer 2: Worth throwing a bash output example here

## Basic Scaffold

> Cool. Now we've got an initial scaffold. Let's add the rest of our options! For the context, let's say we've got a `path.join` we want to make use of. For this, you use a single quote string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we've got our initial scaffold. Let's add the rest of our options! For the `context`, let's say we've got a `path.join` we want to make use of. For this, we use a single quote string.
```

```js
module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let entryProp = answer.entry ? ( '\'' + answer.entry + '\'') : '\'index.js\'';
  let devConfig = {
    entry: entryProp,
    output: {
      filename: '\'[name].js\''
    },
    context: 'path.join(__dirname, "src")'
  };
  return devConfig;
};
```

## Add more functionality

> We're ready to add a plugin, as the last piece of the puzzle. For this, I'm going to create a utility for commonsChunk, based on the input from the user. I'll start by adding another question to our prompt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we are ready to add a plugin. For this, let's create an utility for [`SplitChunksPlugin`](/plugins/split-chunks-plugin/) based on the input from the user. Start by adding another question to our prompt.
```

> We're ready to add an plugin, as a last piece of the puzzle. For this, I'm going to create an utility for commonsChunk, based on the input from the user. I'll start by adding another question in our prompt.

Reviewer 5: an plugin -> a plugin
as a last piece -> as the last piece
an utility -> a utility
in our prompt -> to our prompt

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),

>       Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your commonsChunk?')

Reviewer 2: This needs change, commonsChunkPlugin is deprecared in favor of SplitChunksPlugin

Author: WIP 

> This is still an issue

WIP

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

>       if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
```

        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Create string with chunks

Now, we've got to create a string with our chunk. This is how it looks.

```js
module.exports = function createCommonsChunkPlugin(chunk) {
  return (

>     'new webpack.optimize.CommonsChunkPlugin({name:' + '\'' + chunk + '\'' +

Reviewer 2: This needs change, commonsChunkPlugin is deprecared in favor of SplitChunksPlugin

		',filename:' + '\'' + chunk + '-[hash].min.js\'})'
  );
};
```

> Sweet! We've now created a scaffold with `entry`, `output`, `context` and a `plugin`. If you're curious on the API, check the API for more info on how to scaffold with `regexps`, `module`, or other!

Reviewer 5: What about adding a link to the API?

> Sweet! We've now created a scaffold with `entry`, `output`, `context` and a `plugin`. If you're curious on the API, check the [API](/src/content/guides/scaffolding.md) for more info on how to scaffold with `regexps`, `module`, or other!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've now created a scaffold with `entry`, `output`, `context` and a `plugin`. If you're curious on the API, check the [API](/guides/scaffolding/) for more info on how to scaffold with `regexps`, `module` and other!
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra blank line

## Defining scopes

> In order for webpack to compile correctly, we've got to import `path`. For this, we've got to define something called `topScope`. This is where our code before `module.exports` are going, where you can add everything from imports, variables, to functions. The syntax is the same as with the plugins, except that the `topScope` property expects an array. In `topScope` you can define whatever you want.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for webpack to compile, we've got to import `path`. For this, we've got to define something called `topScope`. This is where our code before `module.exports` is going to, where you can add everything from imports and variables to functions. The syntax is the same as with the plugins, except for that the `topScope` property must be an array. In `topScope` you can define and import what's needed for your specific use case.
```

__generator.js__

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),
      Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your commonsChunk?')

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

>       if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      if (answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
```

        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.topScope = [
          'const path = require("path")',
          'const webpack = require("webpack")'
        ];
      }
    });
  }
};
```

> 

Reviewer 2: remove extra blank line

> ## Nomenclature of configs

Reviewer 2: maybe go with
```suggestion
## Configuration nomenclature
```

> You also might want to name your config file something you've got strong personal attachments to, like my love for penguins. To do so, you can do the following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend you to name your config file something meaningful, like in our case: "penguins". To do it, set the `this.options.env.configuration.dev.configName` to desired string.
```

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),

>       Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your commonsChunk?')

Reviewer 2: this has to be changed, already mentioned above.

>     ]).then (answer => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ]).then(answer => {
```

      if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.topScope = [
          'const path = require("path")',
          'const webpack = require("webpack")'
        ];
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.configName = 'pengwings';
      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Introducing .yo-rc.json

> To write the actual configuration, webpack-cli creates a `.yo-rc.json` file for it to parse the ast. For the CLI to understand how to parse the configuration, we need to write to the `.yo-rc.json`. This is done using the `writing` lifecycle method built in by yeoman.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To write the actual configuration, [webpack CLI](/api/cli/) creates a `.yo-rc.json` file for it to parse the AST. In order for the CLI to understand how to parse the configuration, we need to write to the `.yo-rc.json`. This is done using the `writing` lifecycle method built-in by yeoman.
```

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),
      Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your commonsChunk?')
    ]).then (answer => {
      if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.topScope = [
          'const path = require("path")',
          'const webpack = require("webpack")'
        ];
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.configName = 'pengwings';
      }
    });
  }
  writing() {
    this.config.set('configuration', this.options.env.configuration);
  }
};
```

> Congrats on your first scaffold! If you need help, submit an [issue](https://github.com/ev1stensberg/webpack-scaffold-demo/issues), or reach out to me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/evenstensberg)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations on completing your first scaffold! If you need help, submit an [issue](https://github.com/ev1stensberg/webpack-scaffold-demo/issues), or reach out on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/evenstensberg)!
```

> You can also check the [CLI repo](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-cli).

Reviewer 2: We've already linked cli earlier
```suggestion
```

  };
  return devConfig;
};
```

## Add more functionality

We're ready to add an plugin, as a last piece of the puzzle. For this, I'm going to create an utility for commonsChunk, based on the input from the user. I'll start by adding another question in our prompt.

```js
const Generator = require('yeoman-generator');
const List = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').List;
const Input = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').Input;
const createDevConfig = require('./dev-config');

module.exports = class WebpackGenerator extends Generator {
  constructor(args, opts) {
    super(args, opts);
    opts.env.configuration = {
      dev: {
        webpackOptions: {}
      }
    };
  }

  prompting() {
    return this.prompt([
      List('confirm', 'Welcome to the demo scaffold! Are you ready?', ['Yes', 'No', 'Pengwings']),
      Input('entry', 'What is the entry point in your app?'),
      Input('plugin', 'What do you want to name your commonsChunk?')
    ]).then (answer => {
      if(answer['confirm'] === 'Pengwings') {
        this.options.env.configuration.dev.webpackOptions = createDevConfig(answer);
      }
    });
  }
};
```

## Part 4-B

> 

Reviewer: Change this

Author: Done

> Let's go ahead and create our utility. We've got an utility for this in `webpack-scaffold`, so if you do `const createCommonsChunkPlugin = require('@webpack-cli/webpack-scaffold').commonChunksPluginCreate;`, you get the same thing. I'm doing this for demonstration purposes, so that you can better know how to compose a scaffold. First, I'm going to create a `create-chunk.js`, followed up by an import in `dev-config.js`.

Reviewer: Remove commonschunk entirely, old syntax

Author: Done

__dev-config.js__

```js
const createCommonsChunkPlugin = require('./commons-chunk');

module.exports = function createDevConfig(answer) {
  let entryProp = answer.entry ? ( '\'' + answer.entry + '\'') : '\'index.js\'';
  let devConfig = {
    entry: entryProp,
    output: {
      filename: '\'[name].js\''
    },
    context: 'path.join(__dirname, "src")',
    plugins: [
      createCommonsChunkPlugin(answer.plugin)
    ]
  };
  return devConfig;
};
```

__commons-chunk.js__

```js
module.exports = function createCommonsChunkPlugin(chunk) {

};
```

> ## Part 4-C

Reviewer: Change dis

Author: Done

Now, we've got to create a string with our chunk. This is how it looks.

```js
module.exports = function createCommonsChunkPlugin(chunk) {
  return (
    'new webpack.optimize.CommonsChunkPlugin({name:' + '\'' + chunk + '\'' +
		',filename:' + '\'' + chunk + '-[hash].min.js\'})'
  );
};
```

Sweet! We've now created a scaffold with `entry`, `output`, `context` and a `plugin`. If you're curious on the API, check the API for more info on how to scaffold with `regexps`, `module`, or other!

> ## Part 5-A

Reviewer: Change this
